packages/animate-presence/src/components/animate-presence/readme.md, before:

# animate-presence



<!-- Auto Generated Below -->


## Properties

| Property      | Attribute | Description | Type                           | Default     |
| ------------- | --------- | ----------- | ------------------------------ | ----------- |
| `descendants` | --        |             | `HTMLAnimatePresenceElement[]` | `[]`        |
| `observe`     | `observe` |             | `boolean`                      | `undefined` |


## Events

| Event          | Description | Type                |
| -------------- | ----------- | ------------------- |
| `exitComplete` |             | `CustomEvent<void>` |


## Methods

### `enter() => Promise<void>`



#### Returns

Type: `Promise<void>`



### `exit() => Promise<void>`



#### Returns

Type: `Promise<void>`



### `registerChild(el: HTMLAnimatePresenceElement) => Promise<void>`



#### Returns

Type: `Promise<void>`



### `unregisterChild(key: string) => Promise<void>`



#### Returns

Type: `Promise<void>`




----------------------------------------------

*Built with [StencilJS](https://stenciljs.com/)*

Commit message:

docs(): update animate-presence docs

packages/animate-presence/src/components/animate-presence/readme.md, after:

# animate-presence



<!-- Auto Generated Below -->


## Properties

| Property  | Attribute | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Type      | Default     |
| --------- | --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | --------- | ----------- |
| `observe` | `observe` | If `true` (default), a MutationObserver will automatically be connected to enable animations when a child node enters/exits.  If you know the children are static (typical `animated-route-switch` use case), `false` may improve performance.  Note: `<animate-presence>` elements which are children of a parent `<animate-presence>` element will inherit this value,  which means MutationObservers can be disabled for the entire tree by setting `observe={false}` on the top-level element.  However, directly set values always take precedence over inherited values. | `boolean` | `undefined` |


## Events

| Event          | Description                                                                                                                                                              | Type                |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------- |
| `exitComplete` | Fires when all exiting nodes have completed animating out.  To simplify listener behavior, this event bubbles, but never beyond the closest `<animate-presence>` parent. | `CustomEvent<void>` |


## Methods

### `enter() => Promise<void>`

Programmatically triggers an entrance.

Nested `<animate-presence>` children will be animated in from the top down, meaning that parent elements trigger a child's entrance after their own entrance finishes.

#### Returns

Type: `Promise<void>`



### `exit() => Promise<void>`

Programmatically triggers an exit.

Nested `<animate-presence>` children will be animated out from the bottom up, meaning that children elements trigger a parent's exit after their own exit finishes.

#### Returns

Type: `Promise<void>`




----------------------------------------------

*Built with [StencilJS](https://stenciljs.com/)*
